For his 9th birthday a few years ago, Carter Steadman didn’t want any presents. Instead, he asked for donations. He wanted to create a way station for monarch butterflies. “It’s a place where monarchs can stop and lay eggs,” explains Carter, now in sixth grade. 2 With his parents’ help, Carter cleared an area in his backyard in Virginia. Next, he planted rows of flowering plants called milkweed— monarchs’ main source of food. Then he waited for the butterflies to come. 3 Every fall, millions of monarchs fly up to 4,800 kilometers (3,000 miles) from Canada and the United States to Mexico. There, the insects spend the winter clustered in trees in the mountains. In the spring, their offspring travel back north, stopping along the way to eat and reproduce. 4 This yearly migration is one of the most impressive in the animal kingdom, but its future is uncertain. That’s why people like Carter are joining scientists to help the butterflies before it’s too late. Super Voyagers 5 Monarch butterflies live all over the world, from the Americas to Australia and India. But none journey as far as the monarchs of North America. “Their migration is awe-inspiring,” says Karen Oberhauser, a monarch researcher at the University of Minnesota. 6 These butterflies leave Mexico in March. They breed as they migrate. Females lay eggs across northern Mexico and the southern United States beginning a new life cycle. The older butterflies die, and their offspring continue north. 7 Over the summer, several more generations are born. In September, the youngest butterflies begin the trek back to Mexico. Many return to the same forests their great-great-grandparents visited! 8 But in recent years, fewer butterflies are surviving their trips. People are killing milkweed plants to make room for crops and lawns. More storms are toppling trees where monarchs spend the winter. People Power 9 Luckily, monarchs have some important allies. Over the past 60 years, thousands of people have helped scientists study these incredible insects. 10 The effort began in the 1950s. Back then, monarchs’ migration paths were unknown. But a butterfly scientist named Fred Urquhart had a plan. He and his wife, Norah, recruited volunteers across North America to track the monarchs. 11 These citizen scientists attached tiny stickers called tags to the butterflies’ wings. Anyone who found a tag sent it back to Urquhart. The tags told Urquhart where each butterfly started out and ended up. Today, people continue to tag monarchs through Monarch Watch, an organization based at the University of Kansas. Some citizen scientists also count monarch eggs and caterpillars. Others share photos online. Reading Page 4 13 “It’s like a huge Easter egg hunt across the whole continent,” says Elizabeth Howard. She founded Journey North, a website that tracks monarch sightings. “We have everyone from kindergartners to the oldest scientists following the migration,” she says. Gardens of Hope 14 Reports from citizen scientists are extremely valuable. “They paint a picture of how the monarch population is doing,” says Oberhauser, the monarch researcher in Minnesota. Scientists have learned, for example, that monarchs are at risk of extinction within the next 20 years. 15 That’s where kids like Carter and others can help. By planting butterfly gardens, they’re restoring the habitat monarchs need to survive. “Humans may be the problem, but we’re also the solution,” says Carter. 16 Over the past four years, Carter has raised and tagged more than 700 monarch butterflies. And he doesn’t plan to stop anytime soon. “If we’re careful with our Earth,” he says, “monarchs will rebound, and we’ll have a success story to tell.” Read these sentences from the selection. Next, he planted rows of flowering plants called milkweed—monarchs’ main source of food. (paragraph 2) Over the past four years, Carter has raised and tagged more than 700 monarch butterflies. (paragraph 16) What can the reader infer about Carter based on these sentences? A Carter sees many types of insects in his backyard all year long. B Carter has expanded the area that he uses to host butterflies. C Carter’s efforts to help butterflies have been successful. D Carter’s backyard is a place for citizen scientists to meet. 48175_4 2 Which sentence from the selection best supports the controlling idea that monarchs depend on human help? F He wanted to create a way station for monarch butterflies. (paragraph 1) G Every fall, millions of monarchs fly up to 4,800 kilometers (3,000 miles) from Canada and the United States to Mexico. (paragraph 3) H The older butterflies die, and their offspring continue north. (paragraph 6) J By planting butterfly gardens, they’re restoring the habitat monarchs need to survive. (paragraph 15) 3 What can the reader conclude based on information in both paragraphs 2 and 8? A Milkweed that the monarchs depend on is a threat to farmers’ crops. B Monarchs are beginning to rely on food sources other than milkweed. C Migrating monarchs are often unable to find the milkweed they need. D Milkweed is more available in the United States than it is in Mexico. 48238_1 4 What key idea is supported by the details in paragraphs 12 and 13? F People enjoy participating in efforts to track the monarchs. G Advanced technology is required to track migration paths of monarchs. H Monarch Watch uses photography as a main method of counting monarchs. J Young monarch watchers are often trained by older researchers. 5 In paragraph 9, the words “Luckily” and “important allies” contribute to the author’s voice by showing — A doubt that monarchs are truly in danger of extinction B frustration that monarchs sometimes lack the resources they need C hope that people will do what is needed to save monarchs D wonder about whether the attempts to save monarchs will be unsuccessful 48172_4 6 What does the information in paragraphs 1 through 4 help the reader understand? F People can most help monarch butterflies by clearing areas for monarchs to lay eggs. G Creating way stations for monarch butterflies is very costly. H Monarch butterflies can mainly be found in mountainous areas. J A problem faced by monarch butterflies is beginning to receive public attention. 7 How does the selection’s problem-solution organizational structure most contribute to the author’s purpose? A By detailing concerns that young people have when trying to raise money to build gardens for monarchs B By explaining the difficulties citizen scientists encounter when trying to locate monarchs C By emphasizing how restoring monarch habitats can help bring back the monarch population D By showing reasons why researchers are unable to gather enough data about the health of the monarch population